if you thought mortgage rates were high
just wait until I give you today's
information look you've got to
understand this from two aspects there's
the buyer's side but there's also the
bond markets and the bond market
dictates what happens to those mortgage
rates it's not as if your bank simply
decides what the rates got to be we look
at the bond market I'm going to explain
that in simple language to you today and
understand that what we saw in the
previous instance was devastating so
imagine with all of the excess debt that
we've got today what could occur and I'm
going to show you I'll break it all down
for you my name is David Guin Theory and
what I do at this channel is I take all
that Financial Wizardry and I explain it
in simple English so that we can all
understand if you stick with me I'm
going to give you all the details you
need to know to make the right decisions
for yourself but more importantly what
to avoid I'll bring it all down for you
right here it's an interesting article
out of the Wall Street Journal and I
thought it was cool because the way they
did this you can see at the very bottom
it says one vacant lot is a real estate
opportunity and that's the red section
there that they're kind of highlighting
and if I scroll down it brings us and
kind of zooms out and you see how many
of those there are and it says hundreds
of them are a worry and goes even
further out and says
tens of thousands make a crisis and so
they go into the article and basically
explain what's going on here too many
vacant Lots not enough housing the U.S
real estate puzzle despite a national
housing shortage tens of thousands of
empty residential lots in Chicago
Detroit Pittsburgh and elsewhere are
beyond the region developers or kept
vacant by owners because of legal and
government obstacles that cities are now
trying to knock down there are many
things in the way uh always there seems
to be in many cities preventing
development for one reason or another
and now with interest rates at these
levels a lot of developers even Small
Time developers are saying No thank you
I believe the statistic was for Toronto
22 of those developers have now canceled
projects so you know that the prices of
you know that debt to get it to have
happen makes this simply unaffordable so
a lot of that is not going to come onto
the market that means we have more
people that are looking for homes that
simply say I cannot afford it and what's
going to happen to rents they're going
to be going up even further if you
thought rent was a problem before
this is truly Troublesome big problems
here because you could see the imbalance
that we have some places might have a
lot of availability in real estate uh
before the more attractive cities it
seems like that is not the case so I'll
show you that right here you can see a
mortgage rates could hit eight percent
economists say citing a worrying sign
not seen since the Great Recession we're
at a critical stage right now for the
30-year rate we will look at where that
is I mean it is over seven percent here
at the time of this recording
we don't know where it's going to be you
know in three months from now six months
from now but let me explain something so
we had this thing called the yield curve
inversion what that is is basically just
imagine
you have short-term debt you have
long-term debt if you're going to buy a
one-year Bond you would expect that that
would give you a less return than a
30-year Bond but the thing is completely
reversed upside down so when we get to
this point where it inverts well that
usually signals there's something weird
going on something crazy is happening
and then at some point there's going to
be a reversal we come back up when we
come back up that Signal's a recession
okay so we are now at this point
depending on which you know you're
looking at here we are inverted or
coming back up when it comes back up you
got to understand this why this happens
the government is issuing debt okay
they're putting this debt out there
they're trying to get essentially income
that's what they do and they've got to
pay off their bills if they're not
getting enough tax revenue they got to
go out there and they got to say okay
we're gonna spend some money we're gonna
issue these bonds and that's what's
going to pay for it but the demand from
the investors can continue to go higher
and higher and higher and that means
that no longer is four percent okay we
need to start offering 4.5 percent on
that Bond then five percent of that Bond
six percent of that Bond several but
that means higher borrowing costs more
expenses and how are you going to pay
that bill
it's incredible you're talking about a
trillion dollars to pay back on this
debt okay just in just an interest
payments a trillion dollars for the
United States how are they ever going to
pay that back it's not possible let's
talk about this okay real estate is
mispriced right now you got these three
things number one not enough inventory
in many areas you've got the high
mortgage rates and of course foreign
buyers in some places are a big issue
and so they put things to kind of
prevent that and so on uh but there's
always a way there's always a way and so
we see that in certain areas more than
others but that that is part of the
condition part of the worry
and we'll talk about this in a sec but
what we can look at is certain
indicators that are going to make the
difference between knowing when the
right time is and when it's not
so we want to check what's happening
with vacancy we want to look at how many
of these properties are being developed
so we're going to look at permits and
we're going to look at like any any type
of indicator we can I talked about in my
second book but um you know you could
look at these things I actually have it
on on Discord as well so
um you got to understand like where is
the development right now how many
cranes do you have in your area in your
established area that you're looking at
either you're an investor or you're
looking to buy a home or whatever this
is important you've got to know those
details before you put any money into it
very very important now those foreign
buyers I'm just highlighting this as
just a one article Saudi Arabia is
buying up the world now there are many
different players around the world that
are buying assets inside of the US look
at what Saudi is you know they're doing
Liv golf they're doing you know their
own uh soccer where suddenly they're
spending billions literally billions of
dollars to get these soccer players
oftentimes from Europe that are
attracting people in they are
diversifying out of oil still prominent
but they're trying to diversify out of
oil and attracting money from all around
the world it seems like no longer in the
media they're no longer being pictured
as the bad guy anymore and they're also
doing business with all these other
countries including China with out the
US dollar keep that in mind okay so this
is really uh interesting to see where
the money is coming to and from and
that's part of it we want to know where
the people and businesses are moving in
or moving out we of course want to avoid
these places where people are moving out
you don't want that
follow the money
money is tighter in commercial real
estate that's another factor and the
biggest concern are the small Banks
let's follow all that let's look at this
right now I could show you some big
details a real estate Haven turns
perilous with roughly one trillion
dollars come and do this is apartment
buildings now I love apartment buildings
I think this is the best type of real
estate in general because there's more
renters and what did I say the rent are
probably going to go up now it depends
on the area and a lot of people can't
pay their bills you got to watch out for
this doesn't mean that it's bulletproof
nothing is apartment building is long
considered real estate Haven are
emerging as the next major trouble spot
in the beleaguered commercial property
World investors bid up the prices of
multi-family buildings for years
attracted by steadily Rising rates and
the prospect of outsized returns many
took on too much debt expecting they
could raise rents fast enough to pay it
down very big mistake now they're
borrowing at these super high rates that
is terrible you don't want to do this
you wanted to get get into the good
properties you want somebody to be in
there to be able to pay how do you do
that you look for where the jobs are you
don't want too much vacancy maybe the
building that you have doesn't have much
vacancy but what about those other areas
around you you don't want that okay you
got to look at the vacancy and
understand also what's coming to the
market if maybe a building's not ready
yet but in a year that's going to be
ready you better watch out because you
might have a flood of people going
elsewhere know what who they are know
the potential rents in this area if you
can you got to fix up these properties
and be able to command the highest price
that you can for that given property
simple matter of you know fixing it up
making it nice and you're ultimately
going to have competition around you
know these things as an investor okay so
let's look at this next part
this Arkansas town could become the
epicenter of a U.S lithium boom company
such as Exxon Mobil plan to extract
lithium from brine water to help Power
electric vehicles so right now
you know the drill what's happening with
lithium trying to access it it's coming
from different parts of the world it's
so difficult to get this could be a
potential you know positive not just for
Arkansas but for creating jobs inside of
the US you want to see domestic
development you want to see things
happening and that goes for any sort of
refinement and anything involved also
you don't want to transport things from
all around the world we know how
difficult that was during 2020. this is
important because you want to highlight
what are the potential you know
implications of bringing this in we got
more jobs all directly related to this
the mining of it but look those people
got to live somewhere maybe it's a small
town there's not much development now
you got to start developing in there
what does that bring starts to bring
money in it starts to bring different
business in it starts to bring
Communications it starts to bring
Logistics you're bringing in you know
all kinds of stuff food needs to be
there everything it's so we got to look
where the jobs are coming to and the
things that if we've got government
behind that if they're going to throw
billions of dollars in there and that's
the government we know what's going
regardless even if it's getting burned
in the incinerator it doesn't matter
governments throwing money in and so we
want to get behind that as an investor
oh this is a good thing government's
putting money there we know that it's
going to be stable and steady and other
things will follow along with it so look
at the government contracts that are a
part of that as well record by Emmy land
sale collapses amid commercial real
estate slow down so I just wanted to
show you that even in Miami of all
places that this is happening so just
know that there's nothing as bulletproof
and you want to be able to see this and
track this at all costs very very
important to give you some insight about
you know the economy around the world
and just how things have changed okay so
this is going to change if you look at
this map if you look at this video in
two years from from now is going to be a
different circumstance for everybody
because these things do change
understand the economy locally as well
so where do you want to put your money
in a place that's growing or a place
that's shrinking I think that's pretty
obvious but you got to know that you
can't be the type of person that says oh
don't worry it's going to fix itself it
doesn't happen Okay let's be honest when
we're talking about putting your dollars
down somewhere you've got to be honest
with yourself if you appreciate this
video so far make sure to hit that
thumbs up button that's how you support
this channel just by clicking one button
it's right down there okay
look at the good stuff oh
you got to know what's happening with
the debt associated with all of this uh
it's it's been
quite impressive to see how much death
can be accumulated in a short period of
time and it's not looking good this is
commercial real estate we're talking
about here weaker demand and Tighter
standards for commercial real estate
loans Big Stuff tightening lending
loans that's the Orange Line we see that
over time of course there is concern
they don't know what's going to happen
retail office being the worst two you've
got to get out of that if you're in any
way exposed to it in my opinion
commercial real estate loans by large
and small Banks guess which one is large
Banks and guess which one is the small
Banks look at that chart goes back to
2004 by the way what do you think which
one is the small Banks which ones the
large Banks now if I didn't know any
better I would think okay big Banks
they're growing faster JP Morgan Morgan
Stanley you know all these companies
yeah it's got to be the orange line
right it's not it's the small Banks the
small banks are doing most of the loans
and so the small banks are the biggest
that's the svb types that even though
they're you know big in the sense that
they're doing you know that they have a
lot of assets and things they're they're
not the JPS they're not they're not
these these big type of establishments
that's what we're seeing a lot of these
Regional banks are the ones that are
really heavily exposed to the worst type
of stuff the commercial real estate
small Bank Nexus and all I'm showing you
here is that when there is a recession
you look at how much you got the credit
tightening you look at the defaults that
start to happen which have already
started by the way uh and especially and
massively with evergrand and so on you
look at the small Banks how they start
to you know deal with this they're
tightening their credit it comes to the
commercial real estate you've got
reduced demand for office space reduced
commercial real estate activity that
brings itself into a recession it's like
the cycle that keeps on giving not in
the best way and so that's what we've
got we're right in the middle of that
right now and so this spiral is
unfortunately happening we're in the
middle of it watch your exposure to
commercial real estate it is imperative
that we be very careful at this time
finishing the video to look at this one
thing where we've got the bond market
Carnage sending mortgage rates soaring
towards 23 year highs and um ultimately
like what I said before we look at this
we look at what's happening with bonds
because it tells us the story of what's
happening and investors are obviously
demanding higher yields they want a
better return at the same time the
higher these yields go the less
attractive the stocks become because if
I can get five percent seven percent
even more and that's a supposedly a
guarantee from the government why am I
going to put my money into a stock if I
can guarantee that or why would I put
more money into stocks why wouldn't I
just diversify out and hold a little bit
of bonds hey I'm going to get five
percent guaranteed government's going to
pay it up and so that's like that's it
this kind of balance that happens money
starts flowing into bonds and outflows
happen how do we track the outflows e p
f r and that's going to just show us the
data that comes in and out and you
you'll find that around if you look up
you know that information I've shown
many as before
comment of the day I wanted to highlight
this coming from Jerry Khan I believe it
is uh this was on the previous video
talking about ever Grand I wanted to
clarify something ever Grant is not the
largest property developer in the world
that I think I was like in the first
five seconds of the video I mentioned
this
Country Garden is four times larger than
evergrant Country Gardens Country
Gardens okay is now beginning to develop
on its own debt it collapses ever Grand
Cascade of failures will more likely be
uh be that's Unstoppable I cover this in
the video as the comment down below says
David James says
but essentially what we're looking at is
uh just some clarification
ranking by total assets look at this
China ever Grand group over 300 billion
dollars you could see it there for
yourself in the list or you can look at
it here where there is this
clarification con while Country Gardens
total liabilities are the equivalent of
approximately 200 billion dollars they
are only 59 as big as those at evergrant
the world's most indebted developer now
they've got 3 100 projects this country
garden 3 100 projects across all of
China's provinces whereas evergrad only
has 800. so let me clarify ever Grand is
the biggest in one aspect but if you
look at the total amount of projects
Country Garden is bigger and that's what
I did discuss in that video I just
wanted to make it clear I want to
highlight a comment of the day each and
every day because I do appreciate you we
need to understand
um you know all this information in
depth and so I think it's important look
if you want to follow what's happening
each and every day you want to get the
notifications for these videos you want
to get in touch with me directly you
want to communicate with over 1100
people
every single day like-minded for free
check out the Discord link below because
that's where I am putting much more
energy into day after day the money
mirror method where I was able to
predict the bottom of the stock market
gonna do giveaways I'm going head first
into Community check it out at the
Discord below and I'll see you there